# NPUZZLE 42

## Compilation et usage :

### Pour compiler : 

```make```

### Pour lancer le soft : 

- Sur windows : 
```.\npuzzle.exe --ui=true --file=.\tutu.txt```
```go run . exemple/tutu.txt```
```go run .``` (une map existe par défault)

- Sur Linux/Unix : 
```./npuzzle --ui=true --file=./tutu.txt```
  
Options :
go run . --infos

## Projet de résolution de taquin

### Language : 

- Go (Résolution)
- HTML/CSS/JS (UI)

### Auteurs :

pbenoit
pavaudon


### Un peu de lecture : 

### RESOLUTION
https://taquin.net/fr/ https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taquin

## Traditional mode :

1	2	3
4	5	6
7	8	
Et/ou :

## Snail mode :

1	2	3
8		4
7	6	5

## Distance de Manhattan heuristic
`d(A, B) = (Xb - Xa) + (Yb - Ya)`

## linear conflict heuristic

The first significant improvement to Manhattan distance was the linear-conflict heuristic (Hansson,
Mayer, and Yung 1992). It applies when two tiles are
in their goal row or column, but are reversed relative to
their goal positions. For example, if the top row of the
puzzle contains the tiles (2 1) in that order, to reverse
them, one of the tiles must move down out of the top
row, to allow the other to pass by, and then back up.
Since these two moves are not counted in the Manhattan distance of either tile, two moves can be added to
Manhattan distance without violating admissibility.
As another example, if the top row contains the tiles
(3 2 1) in that order, four more moves can be added
to the Manhattan distance, since every pair of tiles
is reversed, and two tiles must move out of the row
temporarily. Furthermore, a tile in its goal position
may be in both a row and a column conflict. Since
the extra moves required to resolve a row conflict are
vertical moves, and those required by a column conflict
are horizontal, both sets of moves can be added to the
Manhattan distance, and still preserve admissibility.
This addition to the Manhattan distance heuristic
reduces the number of nodes generated by A* on the
Fifteen Puzzle by roughly an order of magnitude. The
additional complexity of computing the linear conflicts
slows down node generation by about a factor of two,
however, for a net improvement of a factor of five. Efficiently computing this heuristic involves precomputing
and storing all possible permutations of tiles in a row
or column, and incrementally computing the heuristic
value of a child from that of its parent.

## corner tile heuristic

The next enhancement to our heuristic focuses on the
corners of the puzzle. For example, if the 3 tile is in its
goal position, but some tile other than the 4 is in the
4 position, the 3 tile will have to move temporarily to
correctly position the 4 tile. This requires two moves of
the 3 tile, one to move it out of position, and another to
move it back. If the 3 tile is involved in a row conflict,
then two moves will already be counted for it, and no
more can be added. It can’t be involved in a column
conflict if it’s in its goal position.
The same rule applies to the 9 tile, unless the 9 is
involved in a column conflict. In fact, if both the 3 and
9 tiles are correctly positioned, and the 4 tile is not,
then four moves can be added, since both the 3 and 9
tiles will have to move to correctly position the 4.
This rule also applies to the 15, 19, 21, and 23 tiles.
It applies to the 1 and 5 tiles as well, but the interaction of this heuristic with the last moves heuristic is so
complex that to avoid the overhead of this calculation,
we exclude the 1 and 5 tiles from the corner heuristic.
The corner-tile heuristic can potentially add up to
twelve additional moves to the Manhattan distance,
two for each of the six tiles adjacent to three of the
corners. These extra moves require that at least one of
these six tiles be in its goal position, a situation that
only occurs in about 22% of random states. A search
for the goal, however, does not generate a random sample of states, but is biased toward states that are close
to the goal, or at least appear to the heuristic to be
close. In other words, the search is trying to correctly
position the tiles, and hence this heuristic adds extra
moves much more often than would be expected from
a random sample of states.
In summary, we have considered three enhancements
to the Manhattan distance heuristic, based on linear
conflicts, the last moves, and the corner tiles. The last
two are introduced here for the first time.

## Diagonal conflict heuristic
Same logic as the corner tile heuristic but with diagonal issue.

## Misplaced tile heuristic
How many tiles are misplaced.

```